PolySat

My attempt to prove that P = NP by showing a program for solving instances of Circuit-SAT. the algorithm runs in polynomial time and cannot 'solve' an unsolvable instance. the proof exhibited in basic2.lean labeled solveComplete says that if satisfiable? returns true, there is a solution.

the folder NP will contain a few solvers for problem types in NP based on that algorithm.
 the algorithm is called extended speculative collapse. 
the algorithm starts by turning each part of the circuit to a dynamic-width truth table relating inputs to outputs. the first one states the assumption that the ultimate output is true, while the others represent tautologies. the result is what i call the gate normal form. this form is equivalent to the original formula. 
the 'extended' part means 
i also make sure each entry has an element that is true in that one but false in the other entries of the same table 
the 'speculative' part means, before trying subsolutions, each state incorporates what would have to be the case if it was committed to 
the 'collapse' part means its a form of the wave function collapse algorithm 

by the end of the speculate part, every state has all the elements that are in every compatible row of any other table. that includes the element for each incompatible state set to false, specifically those of compatible states are not set to false
for any three tables, each entry s of the first has a compatible state t of the second. the index element of t is not set to false in s. therefore there exists an element u of the third, compatible with s, where the index of t is also not set to false. s,t,u are thus mutually compatible. their combination is a solution for just three tables 
for more than three tables, the solution set is that where the first two tables are made into their cross product.


when a state is picked(assumed) after the speculatte step is completed, the speculate step is done again, removing all the impossible states accordingly. 


author: Jared Loren Green. 2024. United States. this and all other published works by me are released under permissive license. contributions welcome.